What are your earliest memories of television?
My earliest memories of television I think must have been possibly the coronation of the Queen
because that was about the time that my parents had a television
and prior to that of course we didn't have one at home
but when the coronation came that was about the first time we had one in our own home
so my grandparents didn't have one obviously
so that really was my first recollection of having it in my own home
I was aware of television and of other people having it
but I'd never had the opportunity to sort of sit and watch it myself
but having said that I am not a big television addict
I'm quite happy with a little television screen
my husband had a much larger television
but after he passed away I decided it was too big and heavy so that went
and people always comment
Gosh how do you manage to see what you know on television
it's totally adequate for what I need
and I listen to the radio quite a lot in the day
because I feel like in work and do jobs
and still keep myself informed
but with television it's not quite as easy
because it's a moving picture you tend to want to sit and watch it
which is nice to be able to relax I quite agree
but I'm not a big television fan
How have your viewing patterns changed over the years?
I would say I watch more now in retirement
and because I live on my own possibly
because when my husband was alive as with most families
the remote control was always that side wherever he was
and so it was a matter of popping in
and then if there was something that I was interested in
that he was watching maybe I would sit and watch with him
but generally I'd just let him have his choice
and he sort of chose what he was interested in
if there was anything I was particularly interested in
yes I would sit and watch it
but now because I'm on my own and I have more time
I have my own choice and I can watch whatever programmes I'm interested in
but as I say I'm not a very big fan of it
Have you any experience of watching television with a lot of other people or in a public place?
In my early days when television was very new
yes I know when my parents first had the television
and the coronation was on and I can't remember which royal wedding was on
I remember my mother inviting people in
because other people that were her friends and neighbours that didn't have
were obviously very keen and interested to see
and they would be quite a houseful
and then you know it's a social occasion
because people would sit down and they'd have their cups of tea or coffee
and their sandwich or biscuit
and it was really quite pleasant
but that's gone now hasn't it
because everybody's got one, two or even three or four televisions in their home
it's not just the family one
the youngsters have got their own televisions in their rooms now haven't they
and it's become well part of life today
it's just an accepted part of life that everybody has a television
similarly I suppose to when I was a child
the radio was the thing that we liked to have
but those are my early recollections of social occasions with television
everything that you've seen on television
what would you say has had the greatest effect on your impact on you?
I must say that I enjoy watching operas on television
and when you get somebody like Bryn Terfel
Geraint Evans going way back
Dame Gwyneth Jones
and when you see people like that performing
who are Welsh people
it gives a big thrill
and this is one of the things I feel that television has helped to bring to the working class person
it gives you that opportunity to see wonderful performances
which we were denied before unless we had the means to go to the theatre
or travel to London, maybe Liverpool or Manchester
but we were very very limited in our musical standards I feel before the advent of television
I know we could hear it on radio but it's not quite as good as seeing an actual performance is it?